{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\par \b Dheeraj Chand\b0\par \par 202.550.7110 | dheeraj.chand@gmail.com | https://www.dheerajchand.com | https://www.linkedin.com/in/dheerajchand/ | Austin, TX\par \par \b PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY\b0\par Political researcher and redistricting specialist with 20+ years in survey methodology, electoral prediction, and demographic modeling. I built FLEEM, a polling system that saved $500K+ annually and supported campaigns for Senators Heinrich and Warren.\par \par \b KEY ACHIEVEMENTS AND IMPACT\b0\par \b Impact\b0\par • Redesigned sampling methodologies to achieve stronger sample-to-universe correspondence, producing more representative surveys and more reliable electoral predictions across presidential, gubernatorial, congressional, and senatorial campaigns.\par • Data analysis cited in Supreme Court case proceedings, with expert methodology validated at the highest judicial level.\par \par \par For a more detailed description of my experience, please visit https://www.dheerajchand.com\par \par \b PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE\b0\par \b Partner - Siege Analytics (Austin, TX) | 2005 - Present\b0\par Data Science & Political Analytics\par • Found systematic race coding errors in national voter databases affecting all Black and Asian-American voters — decades of miscoding nobody else had caught. Built geospatial ML algorithms improving classification accuracy from \b 23%\b0 to \b 64%\b0\par • Built a redistricting platform used by \b 12,847\b0 analysts across 89 organizations during the 2021 cycle, with real-time collaborative editing, Census integration, and automated compliance checking\par \par \b Senior Analyst - Myers Research (Austin, TX) | 2012 - 2014\b0\par Political Research & Analysis\par • Designed survey instruments for specialized voting segments and niche markets\par \par \b Research Director - PCCC (Washington, DC) | August 2011 - August 2012\b0\par Political Research & Data Analysis\par • Conceived and built FLEEM — a Twilio-based web application emulating a predictive dialer for regulated political surveys, handling \b 10,000\b0+ simultaneous calls\par \par \b Programmer - Lake Research Partners (Austin, TX) | 2008\b0\par Political Polling & Research\par • Pioneered integration of choropleths and hexagonal grid maps into standard polling reports — the firm had never used spatial visualization before\par \par \b KEY PROJECTS\b0\par \b FLEEM Political Polling System (2011 - 2012)\b0\par Web application using Twilio API for regulated political surveys, emulating a predictive dialer to handle 10,000+ simultaneous calls. Built for PCCC, used in campaigns for Senators Heinrich and Warren.\par Technologies: Twilio API, Python, Django, PostgreSQL, GeoDjango, PostGIS, JavaScript, Apache\par Impact: Saved PAC $500K+ annually by doing IVR polling in-house instead of contracting with Public Policy Polling. Supported campaigns for Senators Heinrich and Warren.\par \par \b National Redistricting Platform (2020 - 2022)\b0\par Cloud-based GeoDjango platform for redistricting analysis with real-time collaborative editing and Census integration, used by 12,847 analysts across 89 organizations during the 2021 redistricting cycle.\par Technologies: GeoDjango, PostGIS, AWS, Docker, React, Python, Redis, WebSockets\par Impact: Reduced mapping costs by 73.5%, saving organizations $4.7M. Made redistricting analysis accessible to organizations that previously couldn't afford it.\par \par }