{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\par \b Dheeraj Chand\b0\par \par 202.550.7110 | dheeraj.chand@gmail.com | https://www.dheerajchand.com | https://www.linkedin.com/in/dheerajchand/ | Austin, TX\par \par \b PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY\b0\par I've spent 20+ years building and owning data environments end-to-end — not just pipelines, but the whole ecosystem. At Helm, I designed Civic Graph as a federated medallion architecture: behavioral, attitudinal, demographic, econometric, and geographical data arriving longitudinally from state, federal, and international agencies with different schemas and update cadences, harmonized into a unified warehouse. I used Databricks, dbt, PySpark, and Snowflake to modernize the ETL layer and cut processing time by 57%.\par \par \b KEY ACHIEVEMENTS AND IMPACT\b0\par \b Impact\b0\par • Built cloud-based data warehouse on AWS processing billions of records with \b 99.94%\b0 accuracy across \b 178,000\b0+ precincts. Geospatial query methods returned results in ~\b 15%\b0 of the time traditional string comparison required.\par • Designed ETL pipelines using PySpark, dbt, Databricks, and PostgreSQL/PostGIS — processing large-scale geospatial datasets with automated quality monitoring.\par • Built real-time FEC fraud detection and analysis system (live at elect.info) using Python, Pandas, and PySpark — processing billions of records to identify likely fraud, money laundering, and financial crimes in a political spending sub-economy valued over \b $2\b0 trillion.\par \par \par For a more detailed description of my experience, please visit https://www.dheerajchand.com\par \par \b CORE COMPETENCIES\b0\par • Data Infrastructure\par • Programming and Development\par • Cloud & DevOps\par \par \b TECHNICAL SKILLS\b0\par • Processing\par • Pipelines\par • Storage\par • Streaming\par • Python\par • R\par • SQL/PostGIS\par • JavaScript\par • Java\par • Other Technologies\par • AWS\par • Containerization\par • Monitoring\par • CI/CD\par \par \b PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE\b0\par \b Partner - Siege Analytics (Austin, TX) | 2005 - Present\b0\par Data Science & Political Analytics\par • Discovered systematic race coding errors in national voter databases affecting \b 50M\b0+ voters. Built geospatial ML algorithms improving demographic classification accuracy from \b 23%\b0 to \b 64%\b0\par • Built a redistricting platform used by \b 12,847\b0 analysts across 89 organizations during the 2021 cycle, with real-time collaborative editing and Census integration\par • Redesigned sampling methodologies to improve sample-to-universe correspondence, producing more representative surveys across electoral campaigns at every level\par \par \b Data Products Manager - Helm/Murmuration (Austin, TX) | 2021 - 2023\b0\par Democratic Electoral Technology\par • Designed and built Civic Graph — a federated medallion architecture data warehouse harmonizing behavioral, attitudinal, demographic, econometric, and geographical data from state, federal, and international agencies into a unified analytical layer\par • Managed an engineering team of 11 while setting technical direction for data architecture and pipeline modernization\par \par \b Analytics Supervisor - GSD&M (Austin, TX) | 2018 - 2019\b0\par Advertising Analytics\par • Rebuilt the Decision Sciences Department from scratch — introduced version control, Agile, and spatial analysis to a team that had been doing everything in Excel\par • Implemented spatial analysis and consumer segmentation that revealed patterns in existing customer data nobody had seen before\par \par \b Software Engineer - Mautinoa Technologies (Austin, TX) | 2016 - 2018\b0\par Humanitarian Technology\par • Conceived, architected, and built econometric simulation software for measuring humanitarian crisis interventions\par • Liaised with senior analysts and executives at the International Federation of Red Cross and UNICEF on impact assessment methodology and tooling\par \par \b Senior Analyst - Myers Research (Austin, TX) | 2012 - 2014\b0\par Political Research & Analysis\par • Designed survey instruments for specialized voting segments and niche markets\par • Co-developed a web application managing all aspects of survey operations — instrument design through data collection and analysis\par \par \b Research Director - PCCC (Washington, DC) | August 2011 - August 2012\b0\par Political Research & Data Analysis\par • Conceived and built FLEEM — a Twilio-based web application emulating a predictive dialer for regulated political surveys, handling \b 10,000\b0+ simultaneous calls\par • Built IVR polling system supporting early quantitative research for Senators Martin Heinrich and Elizabeth Warren\par \par \b KEY PROJECTS\b0\par \b [Siege Utilities](https://github.com/siege-analytics/siege_utilities) — Geospatial Data Sciences Library (2019 - Present)\b0\par Open-source Python library powering all Siege Analytics workflows. 37 GeoDjango models for Census TIGER, NCES, NLRB, and Federal Judicial Districts. 9 population services for demographic analysis. PySpark/Apache Sedona distributed computing utilities. Includes geospatial computation functions that run inside Databricks without Apache Sedona or C library dependencies. Census API integration for ACS, Decennial, and PL 94-171 redistricting data. Hydra + Pydantic configuration system. 1,884+ tests. Dual-licensed AGPLv3/Commercial.\par Technologies: Python, GeoDjango, PostGIS, PySpark, Apache Sedona, Databricks, Hydra, Pydantic, Snowflake, Census API\par Impact: Foundation infrastructure for all Siege Analytics projects — every analysis pipeline and data product depends on it. Demonstrates commitment to open-source and rigorous engineering practices.\par \par \b National Redistricting Platform (2020 - 2022)\b0\par Cloud-based GeoDjango platform for redistricting analysis with real-time collaborative editing and Census integration, used by 12,847 analysts across 89 organizations during the 2021 redistricting cycle.\par Technologies: GeoDjango, PostGIS, AWS, Docker, React, Python, Redis, WebSockets\par Impact: Reduced mapping costs by 73.5%, saving organizations $4.7M. Made redistricting analysis accessible to organizations that previously couldn't afford it.\par \par \b Civic Graph Federated Data Warehouse (2021 - 2023)\b0\par Federated medallion architecture data warehouse harmonizing behavioral, attitudinal, demographic, econometric, and geographical data longitudinally from state agencies, federal agencies (Census, BLS, NCES), and international sources — each with different schemas, encoding systems, and update cadences — into a unified, queryable analytical layer.\par Technologies: Python, PostgreSQL, PostGIS, PySpark, Databricks, Snowflake, dbt, ETL Pipelines\par Impact: Created a multi-dimensional dataset representing $1B+ in accumulated investment, measuring socio-economic change across every dimension at every geographic level over time. Foundation architecture directly informed the elect.info federated pipeline design.\par \par }