{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\par \b Dheeraj Chand\b0\par \par 202.550.7110 | dheeraj.chand@gmail.com | https://www.dheerajchand.com | https://www.linkedin.com/in/dheerajchand/ | Austin, TX\par \par \b PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY\b0\par I've spent 20+ years building and owning data environments end-to-end — not just pipelines, but the whole ecosystem. At Helm, I designed Civic Graph as a federated medallion architecture: behavioral, attitudinal, demographic, econometric, and geographical data arriving longitudinally from state, federal, and international agencies with different schemas and update cadences, harmonized into a unified warehouse.\par \par \b KEY ACHIEVEMENTS AND IMPACT\b0\par \b Impact\b0\par • Built cloud-based data warehouse on AWS processing billions of records with \b 99.94%\b0 accuracy across \b 178,000\b0+ precincts. Geospatial query methods returned results in ~\b 15%\b0 of the time traditional string comparison required.\par • Designed ETL pipelines using PySpark, dbt, Databricks, and PostgreSQL/PostGIS — processing large-scale geospatial datasets with automated quality monitoring.\par \par \par For a more detailed description of my experience, please visit https://www.dheerajchand.com\par \par \b CORE COMPETENCIES\b0\par • Data Infrastructure\par • Programming and Development\par • Cloud & DevOps\par \par \b TECHNICAL SKILLS\b0\par • Processing, Pipelines, Storage, Streaming\par • Python, R, SQL/PostGIS, JavaScript, Java, Other Technologies\par • AWS, Containerization, Monitoring, CI/CD\par \par \b PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE\b0\par \b Partner - Siege Analytics (Austin, TX) | 2005 - Present\b0\par Data Science & Political Analytics\par • Discovered systematic race coding errors in national voter databases affecting \b 50M\b0+ voters. Built geospatial ML algorithms improving demographic classification accuracy from \b 23%\b0 to \b 64%\b0\par • Built a redistricting platform used by \b 12,847\b0 analysts across 89 organizations during the 2021 cycle, with real-time collaborative editing and Census integration\par \par \b Data Products Manager - Helm/Murmuration (Austin, TX) | 2021 - 2023\b0\par Democratic Electoral Technology\par • Designed and built Civic Graph — a federated medallion architecture data warehouse harmonizing behavioral, attitudinal, demographic, econometric, and geographical data from state, federal, and international agencies into a unified analytical layer\par \par \b Analytics Supervisor - GSD&M (Austin, TX) | 2018 - 2019\b0\par Advertising Analytics\par • Rebuilt the Decision Sciences Department from scratch — introduced version control, Agile, and spatial analysis to a team that had been doing everything in Excel\par \par \b Software Engineer - Mautinoa Technologies (Austin, TX) | 2016 - 2018\b0\par Humanitarian Technology\par • Conceived, architected, and built econometric simulation software for measuring humanitarian crisis interventions\par \par \b Senior Analyst - Myers Research (Austin, TX) | 2012 - 2014\b0\par Political Research & Analysis\par • Designed survey instruments for specialized voting segments and niche markets\par \par \b Research Director - PCCC (Washington, DC) | August 2011 - August 2012\b0\par Political Research & Data Analysis\par • Conceived and built FLEEM — a Twilio-based web application emulating a predictive dialer for regulated political surveys, handling \b 10,000\b0+ simultaneous calls\par \par \b KEY PROJECTS\b0\par \b [Siege Utilities](https://github.com/siege-analytics/siege_utilities) — Geospatial Data Sciences Library (2019 - Present)\b0\par Open-source Python library powering all Siege Analytics workflows. 37 GeoDjango models for Census TIGER, NCES, NLRB, and Federal Judicial Districts. 9 population services for demographic analysis. PySpark/Apache Sedona distributed computing utilities. Includes geospatial computation functions that run inside Databricks without Apache Sedona or C library dependencies. Census API integration for ACS, Decennial, and PL 94-171 redistricting data. Hydra + Pydantic configuration system. 1,884+ tests. Dual-licensed AGPLv3/Commercial.\par \par \b National Redistricting Platform (2020 - 2022)\b0\par Cloud-based GeoDjango platform for redistricting analysis with real-time collaborative editing and Census integration, used by 12,847 analysts across 89 organizations during the 2021 redistricting cycle.\par \par }