{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\par \b Dheeraj Chand\b0\par \par 202.550.7110 | dheeraj.chand@gmail.com | https://www.dheerajchand.com | https://www.linkedin.com/in/dheerajchand/ | Austin, TX\par \par \b PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY\b0\par Data engineer with 20+ years building infrastructure for demographic and geospatial data at national scale. I built the Civic Graph data warehouse that harmonized polling data from dozens of firms into a $1B+ dataset. I modernized ETL pipelines with PySpark, dbt, and Databricks — cutting processing times by 57% on one engagement. I maintain siege_utilities, an open-source library with 37 GeoDjango models and PySpark/Sedona distributed computing utilities. My systems process billions of records across 178,000+ precincts with sub-200ms query times.\par \par \b KEY ACHIEVEMENTS AND IMPACT\b0\par \b Impact\b0\par • Built cloud-based data warehouse on AWS processing billions of records with \b 99.94%\b0 accuracy and sub-200ms query response times across \b 178,000\b0+ precincts.\par • Designed ETL pipelines using PySpark, dbt, Databricks, and PostgreSQL/PostGIS — processing large-scale geospatial datasets with automated quality monitoring.\par • Discovered systematic race coding errors in national voter databases affecting all Black and Asian-American voters — decades of miscoding nobody else had caught. Built geospatial ML algorithms improving classification accuracy from \b 23%\b0 to \b 64%\b0.\par • Invented a trigonometric boundary estimation algorithm that reduced mapping costs by \b 73.5%\b0, saving campaigns and nonprofits \b $4.7M\b0 and making redistricting analysis accessible to organizations that couldn't previously afford it.\par • Data analysis cited in Supreme Court case proceedings, with expert methodology validated at the highest judicial level.\par \par \par \b CORE COMPETENCIES\b0\par • Data Infrastructure\par • Programming and Development\par • Cloud & DevOps\par \par \b TECHNICAL SKILLS\b0\par • Processing\par • Pipelines\par • Storage\par • Streaming\par • Python\par • R\par • SQL/PostGIS\par • JavaScript\par • Java\par • Other Technologies\par • AWS\par • Containerization\par • Monitoring\par • CI/CD\par \par \b PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE\b0\par \b Partner - Siege Analytics (Austin, TX) | 2005 - Present\b0\par Data Science & Political Analytics\par • Discovered systematic race coding errors in national voter databases affecting \b 50M\b0+ voters. Built geospatial ML algorithms improving demographic classification accuracy from \b 23%\b0 to \b 64%\b0\par • Built a redistricting platform used by \b 12,847\b0 analysts across 89 organizations during the 2021 cycle, with real-time collaborative editing and Census integration\par • Designed sampling methods cutting survey margin of error from \b ±4.2%\b0 to \b ±2.1%\b0 and improving turnout prediction accuracy from \b 71%\b0 to \b 87%\b0\par • Invented trigonometric boundary estimation algorithm that cut mapping costs \b 73.5%\b0, saving organizations \b $4.7M\b0\par • Built real-time FEC fraud detection using Python, Pandas, and PySpark — processing billions of records daily\par • Briefed senior government officials on election integrity and voter sentiment. Data analysis cited in Supreme Court case proceedings\par \par \b Data Products Manager - Helm/Murmuration (Austin, TX) | 2021 - 2023\b0\par Democratic Electoral Technology\par • Led design and implementation of an enterprise-scale multi-tenant data warehouse for geo-referenced demographic, econometric, and electoral data\par • Managed an engineering team of 11 while setting technical direction for data architecture and pipeline modernization\par • Modernized legacy ETL processes with dbt, PySpark, and Databricks workflows — cut processing time by \b 57%\b0\par \par \b Analytics Supervisor - GSD&M (Austin, TX) | 2018 - 2019\b0\par Advertising Analytics\par • Rebuilt the Decision Sciences Department from scratch — introduced version control, Agile, and spatial analysis to a team that had been doing everything in Excel\par • Implemented spatial analysis and consumer segmentation that revealed patterns in existing customer data nobody had seen before\par • Built ML-based segmentation and behavioral clustering models for multi-million dollar advertising campaigns\par \par \b Software Engineer - Mautinoa Technologies (Austin, TX) | 2016 - 2018\b0\par Humanitarian Technology\par • Conceived, architected, and built econometric simulation software for measuring humanitarian crisis interventions\par • Worked directly with data and engineering directors at UNICEF and IFRC on impact assessment tools\par • Built geospatial analysis systems for population and boundary assessment in crisis zones\par \par \b Senior Analyst - Myers Research (Austin, TX) | 2012 - 2014\b0\par Political Research & Analysis\par • Designed survey instruments for specialized voting segments and niche markets\par • Co-developed a web application managing all aspects of survey operations — instrument design through data collection and analysis\par • Introduced geospatial techniques to enhance market segmentation, providing location-based consumer insights the firm had never offered\par \par \b Research Director - PCCC (Washington, DC) | August 2011 - August 2012\b0\par Political Research & Data Analysis\par • Conceived and built FLEEM — a Twilio-based web application emulating a predictive dialer for regulated political surveys, handling \b 10,000\b0+ simultaneous calls\par • Built IVR polling system supporting early quantitative research for Senators Martin Heinrich and Elizabeth Warren\par • Developed reporting system with Python, GeoDjango, PostGIS, and Apache — tabular and graphical outputs for campaign decision-making\par \par \b KEY PROJECTS\b0\par \b siege_utilities — Geospatial Data Sciences Library (2019 - Present)\b0\par Open-source Python library powering all Siege Analytics workflows. 37 GeoDjango models for Census TIGER, NCES, NLRB, and Federal Judicial Districts. 9 population services for demographic analysis. PySpark/Apache Sedona distributed computing utilities. Census API integration for ACS, Decennial, and PL 94-171 redistricting data. Hydra + Pydantic configuration system. 1,884+ tests. Dual-licensed AGPLv3/Commercial.\par Technologies: Python, GeoDjango, PostGIS, PySpark, Apache Sedona, Hydra, Pydantic, Snowflake, Census API\par Impact: Foundation infrastructure for all Siege Analytics projects — every analysis pipeline and data product depends on it. Demonstrates commitment to open-source and rigorous engineering practices.\par \par \b National Redistricting Platform (2020 - 2022)\b0\par Cloud-based GeoDjango platform for redistricting analysis with real-time collaborative editing and Census integration, used by 12,847 analysts across 89 organizations during the 2021 redistricting cycle.\par Technologies: GeoDjango, PostGIS, AWS, Docker, React, Python, Redis, WebSockets\par Impact: Reduced mapping costs by 73.5%, saving organizations $4.7M. Made redistricting analysis accessible to organizations that previously couldn't afford it.\par \par \b Civic Graph Multi-Tenant Data Warehouse (2013 - 2016)\b0\par Multi-tenant data warehouse harmonizing polling data from dozens of firms with different methodologies and encoding systems into a unified, queryable dataset.\par Technologies: Python, PostgreSQL, PostGIS, PySpark, ETL Pipelines, Meta-Analysis\par Impact: Created a $1B+ dataset that became a foundation for modern electoral analytics, serving dozens of polling and mail firms.\par \par \b Geospatial Demographic Classification System (2014 - Present)\b0\par Machine learning system that discovered systematic race coding errors in national voter databases and improved demographic classification accuracy from 23% to 64%. The finding affected all Black and Asian-American voters in the system.\par Technologies: Python, Scikit-learn, PostGIS, GeoPandas, TensorFlow, PySpark, AWS\par Impact: Corrected demographic data affecting 50M+ voters nationwide. Improved electoral prediction accuracy by 22%. Analysis cited in Supreme Court proceedings.\par \par }