{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\par \b Dheeraj Chand\b0\par \par 202.550.7110 | dheeraj.chand@gmail.com | https://www.dheerajchand.com | https://www.linkedin.com/in/dheerajchand/ | Austin, TX\par \par \b PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY\b0\par Software engineer with 20+ years building full-stack systems for data-intensive applications. I architected FLEEM — a Twilio-based polling system handling 10,000+ simultaneous calls — and a redistricting platform with real-time collaborative editing serving 13,000 analysts. I built econometric simulation software for UNICEF and IFRC. I maintain siege_utilities, a production geospatial library with 37 GeoDjango models, PySpark integration, and 1,884+ tests. I care about systems that are correct, not just systems that ship.\par \par \b KEY ACHIEVEMENTS AND IMPACT\b0\par \b Impact\b0\par • Built a redistricting platform serving \b 12,847\b0 analysts across 89 organizations during the 2021 redistricting cycle, with real-time collaborative editing and Census integration.\par • Designed ETL pipelines using PySpark, dbt, Databricks, and PostgreSQL/PostGIS — processing large-scale geospatial datasets with automated quality monitoring.\par • Invented a trigonometric boundary estimation algorithm that reduced mapping costs by \b 73.5%\b0, saving campaigns and nonprofits \b $4.7M\b0 and making redistricting analysis accessible to organizations that couldn't previously afford it.\par • Discovered systematic race coding errors in national voter databases affecting all Black and Asian-American voters — decades of miscoding nobody else had caught. Built geospatial ML algorithms improving classification accuracy from \b 23%\b0 to \b 64%\b0.\par \par \par \b CORE COMPETENCIES\b0\par • Programming and Development\par • Cloud & DevOps\par • Data Infrastructure\par \par \b TECHNICAL SKILLS\b0\par • Python\par • R\par • SQL/PostGIS\par • JavaScript\par • Java\par • Other Technologies\par • AWS\par • Containerization\par • Monitoring\par • CI/CD\par • Processing\par • Pipelines\par • Storage\par • Streaming\par \par \b PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE\b0\par \b Partner - Siege Analytics (Austin, TX) | 2005 - Present\b0\par Data Science & Political Analytics\par • Discovered systematic race coding errors in national voter databases affecting \b 50M\b0+ voters. Built geospatial ML algorithms improving demographic classification accuracy from \b 23%\b0 to \b 64%\b0\par • Built a redistricting platform used by \b 12,847\b0 analysts across 89 organizations during the 2021 cycle, with real-time collaborative editing and Census integration\par • Redesigned sampling methodologies to improve sample-to-universe correspondence, producing more representative surveys across electoral campaigns at every level\par • Invented trigonometric boundary estimation algorithm that cut mapping costs \b 73.5%\b0, saving organizations \b $4.7M\b0\par • Built real-time FEC fraud detection and analysis system (live at elect.info) using Python, Pandas, and PySpark — processing billions of records\par • Briefed senior government officials on election integrity and voter sentiment. Data analysis cited in Supreme Court case proceedings\par \par \b Data Products Manager - Helm/Murmuration (Austin, TX) | 2021 - 2023\b0\par Democratic Electoral Technology\par • Led design and implementation of an enterprise-scale multi-tenant data warehouse for geo-referenced demographic, econometric, and electoral data\par • Managed an engineering team of 11 while setting technical direction for data architecture and pipeline modernization\par • Modernized legacy ETL processes with dbt, PySpark, Snowflake, and Databricks workflows — cut processing time by \b 57%\b0\par \par \b Software Engineer - Mautinoa Technologies (Austin, TX) | 2016 - 2018\b0\par Humanitarian Technology\par • Conceived, architected, and built econometric simulation software for measuring humanitarian crisis interventions\par • Worked directly with data and engineering directors at UNICEF and IFRC on impact assessment tools\par • Built geospatial analysis systems for population and boundary assessment in crisis zones\par \par \b Research Director - PCCC (Washington, DC) | August 2011 - August 2012\b0\par Political Research & Data Analysis\par • Conceived and built FLEEM — a Twilio-based web application emulating a predictive dialer for regulated political surveys, handling \b 10,000\b0+ simultaneous calls\par • Built IVR polling system supporting early quantitative research for Senators Martin Heinrich and Elizabeth Warren\par • Developed reporting system with Python, GeoDjango, PostGIS, and Apache — tabular and graphical outputs for campaign decision-making\par \par \b Software Engineer - Salsa Labs (Washington, DC) | January 2011 - August 2011\b0\par Political Technology & CRM Systems\par • Built geospatial analysis and mapping tools for a political CRM platform serving progressive campaigns\par • Developed database integration connecting voter files with campaign management tools\par • Created data processing pipelines for voter contact optimization\par \par \b Interim Technology Manager - The Praxis Project (Washington, DC) | April 2009 - October 2009\b0\par Public Health Technology\par • Managed technology infrastructure for a public health advocacy organization\par • Built database systems for tracking policy initiatives and outcomes\par \par \b KEY PROJECTS\b0\par \b siege_utilities — Geospatial Data Sciences Library (2019 - Present)\b0\par Open-source Python library powering all Siege Analytics workflows. 37 GeoDjango models for Census TIGER, NCES, NLRB, and Federal Judicial Districts. 9 population services for demographic analysis. PySpark/Apache Sedona distributed computing utilities. Census API integration for ACS, Decennial, and PL 94-171 redistricting data. Hydra + Pydantic configuration system. 1,884+ tests. Dual-licensed AGPLv3/Commercial.\par Technologies: Python, GeoDjango, PostGIS, PySpark, Apache Sedona, Hydra, Pydantic, Snowflake, Census API\par Impact: Foundation infrastructure for all Siege Analytics projects — every analysis pipeline and data product depends on it. Demonstrates commitment to open-source and rigorous engineering practices.\par \par \b National Redistricting Platform (2020 - 2022)\b0\par Cloud-based GeoDjango platform for redistricting analysis with real-time collaborative editing and Census integration, used by 12,847 analysts across 89 organizations during the 2021 redistricting cycle.\par Technologies: GeoDjango, PostGIS, AWS, Docker, React, Python, Redis, WebSockets\par Impact: Reduced mapping costs by 73.5%, saving organizations $4.7M. Made redistricting analysis accessible to organizations that previously couldn't afford it.\par \par \b FLEEM Political Polling System (2011 - 2012)\b0\par Web application using Twilio API for regulated political surveys, emulating a predictive dialer to handle 10,000+ simultaneous calls. Built for PCCC, used in campaigns for Senators Heinrich and Warren.\par Technologies: Twilio API, Python, Django, PostgreSQL, GeoDjango, PostGIS, JavaScript, Apache\par Impact: Saved PAC $840,000 annually in polling costs. Supported polling for presidential, gubernatorial, congressional, and senatorial campaigns.\par \par \b MuseScore Chord Library Plugin (2026)\b0\par MuseScore Studio 4.6+ plugin replacing the flat palette system with a searchable, filterable chord voicing library for jazz guitar. 787 voicings across 39 chord qualities with fretboard diagrams that insert directly into scores. First pass accepted into the MuseScore ecosystem without revision or objection.\par Technologies: QML, JavaScript, Python, Swift, JSON Schema, Cross-Platform Clipboard APIs\par Impact: Accepted into MuseScore's plugin ecosystem on first submission. Identified a product gap — MuseScore had no way to manage large voicing libraries — and filled it with a complete solution in days.\par \par \b High-Performance Geospatial Tile Server (2010 - 2011)\b0\par Custom tile server for WMS integration enabling interactive visualization of CRM and Census data for political campaigns.\par Technologies: GeoTools, OpenLayers, Java, MySQL, TileMill, JavaScript\par Impact: Improved contact rates by 53% and segmentation accuracy by 88% through spatial visualization of campaign data.\par \par }