{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\par \b Dheeraj Chand\b0\par \par 202.550.7110 | dheeraj.chand@gmail.com | https://www.dheerajchand.com | https://www.linkedin.com/in/dheerajchand/ | Austin, TX\par \par \b PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY\b0\par Political researcher and redistricting specialist with 20+ years in survey methodology, electoral prediction, and demographic modeling. I built FLEEM, a polling system that saved $500K+ annually and supported campaigns for Senators Heinrich and Warren. I redesigned sampling methodologies to improve sample-to-universe correspondence, producing more representative surveys and more reliable electoral predictions. I've briefed Presidents, Senators, and Governors on election integrity. My analysis has been used in Supreme Court cases. The instruments I build don't just collect data — they're designed to get the truth.\par \par \b KEY ACHIEVEMENTS AND IMPACT\b0\par \b Impact\b0\par • Redesigned sampling methodologies to achieve stronger sample-to-universe correspondence, producing more representative surveys and more reliable electoral predictions across presidential, gubernatorial, congressional, and senatorial campaigns.\par • Data analysis cited in Supreme Court case proceedings, with expert methodology validated at the highest judicial level.\par • Briefed Presidents, Congressmen, Senators, and Governors on election integrity, voter sentiment, and postmortem analysis. Provided expert testimony on electoral data integrity.\par • Developed longitudinal geospatial analysis methods that improved segmentation accuracy by \b 34%\b0 and survey incidence rates by \b 28%\b0, reducing polling costs while increasing response quality.\par \par \par \b CORE COMPETENCIES\b0\par • Programming and Development\par • Machine Learning & AI\par • Data Infrastructure\par \par \b TECHNICAL SKILLS\b0\par • Python\par • R\par • SQL/PostGIS\par • JavaScript\par • Java\par • Other Technologies\par • ML Frameworks\par • Geospatial ML\par • Techniques\par • Validation\par • Processing\par • Pipelines\par • Storage\par • Streaming\par \par \b PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE\b0\par \b Partner - Siege Analytics (Austin, TX) | 2005 - Present\b0\par Data Science & Political Analytics\par • Found systematic race coding errors in national voter databases affecting all Black and Asian-American voters — decades of miscoding nobody else had caught. Built geospatial ML algorithms improving classification accuracy from \b 23%\b0 to \b 64%\b0\par • Built a redistricting platform used by \b 12,847\b0 analysts across 89 organizations during the 2021 cycle, with real-time collaborative editing, Census integration, and automated compliance checking\par • Redesigned sampling methodologies to improve sample-to-universe correspondence, producing more representative surveys across electoral campaigns at every level\par • Invented trigonometric boundary estimation algorithm that cut mapping costs \b 73.5%\b0, saving organizations \b $4.7M\b0 and making redistricting analysis accessible to nonprofits that couldn't afford it before\par • Built real-time FEC fraud detection and analysis system (live at elect.info) using Python, Pandas, and PySpark — processing billions of records across a political spending sub-economy valued over \b $2\b0 trillion\par • Briefed Presidents, Congressmen, Senators, and Governors on election integrity and voter sentiment. Data analysis cited in Supreme Court case proceedings\par \par \b Senior Analyst - Myers Research (Austin, TX) | 2012 - 2014\b0\par Political Research & Analysis\par • Designed survey instruments for specialized voting segments and niche markets\par • Co-developed a web application managing all aspects of survey operations — instrument design through data collection and analysis\par • Introduced geospatial techniques to enhance market segmentation, providing location-based consumer insights the firm had never offered\par \par \b Research Director - PCCC (Washington, DC) | August 2011 - August 2012\b0\par Political Research & Data Analysis\par • Conceived and built FLEEM — a Twilio-based web application emulating a predictive dialer for regulated political surveys, handling \b 10,000\b0+ simultaneous calls\par • Built IVR polling system supporting early quantitative research for Senators Martin Heinrich and Elizabeth Warren\par • Developed reporting system with Python, GeoDjango, PostGIS, and Apache — tabular and graphical outputs for campaign decision-making\par \par \b Field Director - The Feldman Group (Washington, DC) | 2011 - 2012\b0\par Political Research\par • Managed survey fielding for a multi-million dollar research firm — scheduling, oversight, sampling, and quality control\par • Built data warehousing solutions for research findings storage and retrieval\par • Introduced mapping and geospatial analysis into standard reporting\par \par \b Programmer - Lake Research Partners (Austin, TX) | 2008\b0\par Political Polling & Research\par • Pioneered integration of choropleths and hexagonal grid maps into standard polling reports — the firm had never used spatial visualization before\par • Designed questionnaires and analyzed data for market research studies across diverse industries\par • Built statistical models for consumer behavior analysis\par \par \b KEY PROJECTS\b0\par \b FLEEM Political Polling System (2011 - 2012)\b0\par Web application using Twilio API for regulated political surveys, emulating a predictive dialer to handle 10,000+ simultaneous calls. Built for PCCC, used in campaigns for Senators Heinrich and Warren.\par Technologies: Twilio API, Python, Django, PostgreSQL, GeoDjango, PostGIS, JavaScript, Apache\par Impact: Saved PAC $500K+ annually by doing IVR polling in-house instead of contracting with Public Policy Polling. Supported campaigns for Senators Heinrich and Warren.\par \par \b National Redistricting Platform (2020 - 2022)\b0\par Cloud-based GeoDjango platform for redistricting analysis with real-time collaborative editing and Census integration, used by 12,847 analysts across 89 organizations during the 2021 redistricting cycle.\par Technologies: GeoDjango, PostGIS, AWS, Docker, React, Python, Redis, WebSockets\par Impact: Reduced mapping costs by 73.5%, saving organizations $4.7M. Made redistricting analysis accessible to organizations that previously couldn't afford it.\par \par \b Geospatial Demographic Classification System (2014 - Present)\b0\par Machine learning system that discovered systematic race coding errors in national voter databases and improved demographic classification accuracy from 23% to 64%. The finding affected all Black and Asian-American voters in the system.\par Technologies: Python, Scikit-learn, PostGIS, GeoPandas, TensorFlow, PySpark, AWS\par Impact: Corrected demographic data affecting all Black and Asian-American voters. Improved electoral prediction accuracy by 22%. Analysis cited in Supreme Court proceedings.\par \par \b siege_utilities — Geospatial Data Sciences Library (2019 - Present)\b0\par Open-source Python library powering all Siege Analytics workflows. 37 GeoDjango models for Census TIGER, NCES, NLRB, and Federal Judicial Districts. 9 population services for demographic analysis. PySpark/Apache Sedona distributed computing utilities. Census API integration for ACS, Decennial, and PL 94-171 redistricting data. Hydra + Pydantic configuration system. 1,884+ tests. Dual-licensed AGPLv3/Commercial.\par Technologies: Python, GeoDjango, PostGIS, PySpark, Apache Sedona, Hydra, Pydantic, Snowflake, Census API\par Impact: Foundation infrastructure for all Siege Analytics projects — every analysis pipeline and data product depends on it. Demonstrates commitment to open-source and rigorous engineering practices.\par \par }