{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\par \b Dheeraj Chand\b0\par \par 202.550.7110 | dheeraj.chand@gmail.com | https://www.dheerajchand.com | https://www.linkedin.com/in/dheerajchand/ | Austin, TX\par \par \b PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY\b0\par Product leader with 20+ years shipping data platforms. Managed an 11-person engineering team at Helm/Murmuration, setting technical direction for an enterprise data warehouse serving democratic electoral organizations. Built a redistricting platform used by 12,847 analysts across 89 organizations. At GSD&M, rebuilt a data department from scratch and rewrote their services offering. I understand both the technical architecture and the business case — because I've usually had to build and sell both.\par \par \b KEY ACHIEVEMENTS AND IMPACT\b0\par \b Impact\b0\par • Built a redistricting platform serving \b 12,847\b0 analysts across 89 organizations during the 2021 redistricting cycle, with real-time collaborative editing and Census integration.\par • Delivered \b $4.9M\b0 in additional revenue through continuous testing and optimization, with \b 23%\b0 improvement in conversion rates.\par • Invented a trigonometric boundary estimation algorithm that reduced mapping costs by \b 73.5%\b0, saving campaigns and nonprofits \b $4.7M\b0 and making redistricting analysis accessible to organizations that couldn't previously afford it.\par • Designed sampling methods that cut survey margin of error from \b ±4.2%\b0 to \b ±2.1%\b0 and improved voter turnout prediction accuracy from \b 71%\b0 to \b 87%\b0. Consistently outperformed competing firms by 15-20 percentage points.\par \par \par \b CORE COMPETENCIES\b0\par • Programming and Development\par • Data Infrastructure\par • Machine Learning & AI\par \par \b TECHNICAL SKILLS\b0\par • Python\par • R\par • SQL/PostGIS\par • JavaScript\par • Java\par • Other Technologies\par • Processing\par • Pipelines\par • Storage\par • Streaming\par • ML Frameworks\par • Geospatial ML\par • Techniques\par • Validation\par \par \b PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE\b0\par \b Partner - Siege Analytics (Austin, TX) | 2005 - Present\b0\par Data Science & Political Analytics\par • Discovered systematic race coding errors in national voter databases affecting \b 50M\b0+ voters. Built geospatial ML algorithms improving demographic classification accuracy from \b 23%\b0 to \b 64%\b0\par • Built a redistricting platform used by \b 12,847\b0 analysts across 89 organizations during the 2021 cycle, with real-time collaborative editing and Census integration\par • Designed sampling methods cutting survey margin of error from \b ±4.2%\b0 to \b ±2.1%\b0 and improving turnout prediction accuracy from \b 71%\b0 to \b 87%\b0\par • Invented trigonometric boundary estimation algorithm that cut mapping costs \b 73.5%\b0, saving organizations \b $4.7M\b0\par • Built real-time FEC fraud detection using Python, Pandas, and PySpark — processing billions of records daily\par • Briefed senior government officials on election integrity and voter sentiment. Data analysis cited in Supreme Court case proceedings\par \par \b Data Products Manager - Helm/Murmuration (Austin, TX) | 2021 - 2023\b0\par Democratic Electoral Technology\par • Led design and implementation of an enterprise-scale multi-tenant data warehouse for geo-referenced demographic, econometric, and electoral data\par • Managed an engineering team of 11 while setting technical direction for data architecture and pipeline modernization\par • Modernized legacy ETL processes with dbt, PySpark, and Databricks workflows — cut processing time by \b 57%\b0\par \par \b Analytics Supervisor - GSD&M (Austin, TX) | 2018 - 2019\b0\par Advertising Analytics\par • Rebuilt the Decision Sciences Department from scratch — introduced version control, Agile, and spatial analysis to a team that had been doing everything in Excel\par • Implemented spatial analysis and consumer segmentation that revealed patterns in existing customer data nobody had seen before\par • Built ML-based segmentation and behavioral clustering models for multi-million dollar advertising campaigns\par \par \b Senior Analyst - Myers Research (Austin, TX) | 2012 - 2014\b0\par Political Research & Analysis\par • Designed survey instruments for specialized voting segments and niche markets\par • Co-developed a web application managing all aspects of survey operations — instrument design through data collection and analysis\par • Introduced geospatial techniques to enhance market segmentation, providing location-based consumer insights the firm had never offered\par \par \b Research Director - PCCC (Washington, DC) | August 2011 - August 2012\b0\par Political Research & Data Analysis\par • Conceived and built FLEEM — a Twilio-based web application emulating a predictive dialer for regulated political surveys, handling \b 10,000\b0+ simultaneous calls\par • Built IVR polling system supporting early quantitative research for Senators Martin Heinrich and Elizabeth Warren\par • Developed reporting system with Python, GeoDjango, PostGIS, and Apache — tabular and graphical outputs for campaign decision-making\par \par \b KEY PROJECTS\b0\par \b National Redistricting Platform (2020 - 2022)\b0\par Cloud-based GeoDjango platform for redistricting analysis with real-time collaborative editing and Census integration, used by 12,847 analysts across 89 organizations during the 2021 redistricting cycle.\par Technologies: GeoDjango, PostGIS, AWS, Docker, React, Python, Redis, WebSockets\par Impact: Reduced mapping costs by 73.5%, saving organizations $4.7M. Made redistricting analysis accessible to organizations that previously couldn't afford it.\par \par \b siege_utilities — Geospatial Data Sciences Library (2019 - Present)\b0\par Open-source Python library powering all Siege Analytics workflows. 37 GeoDjango models for Census TIGER, NCES, NLRB, and Federal Judicial Districts. 9 population services for demographic analysis. PySpark/Apache Sedona distributed computing utilities. Census API integration for ACS, Decennial, and PL 94-171 redistricting data. Hydra + Pydantic configuration system. 1,884+ tests. Dual-licensed AGPLv3/Commercial.\par Technologies: Python, GeoDjango, PostGIS, PySpark, Apache Sedona, Hydra, Pydantic, Snowflake, Census API\par Impact: Foundation infrastructure for all Siege Analytics projects — every analysis pipeline and data product depends on it. Demonstrates commitment to open-source and rigorous engineering practices.\par \par \b FLEEM Political Polling System (2011 - 2012)\b0\par Web application using Twilio API for regulated political surveys, emulating a predictive dialer to handle 10,000+ simultaneous calls. Built for PCCC, used in campaigns for Senators Heinrich and Warren.\par Technologies: Twilio API, Python, Django, PostgreSQL, GeoDjango, PostGIS, JavaScript, Apache\par Impact: Saved PAC $840,000 annually in polling costs. Supported polling for presidential, gubernatorial, congressional, and senatorial campaigns.\par \par \b MuseScore Chord Library Plugin (2026)\b0\par MuseScore Studio 4.6+ plugin replacing the flat palette system with a searchable, filterable chord voicing library for jazz guitar. 787 voicings across 39 chord qualities with fretboard diagrams that insert directly into scores. First pass accepted into the MuseScore ecosystem without revision or objection.\par Technologies: QML, JavaScript, Python, Swift, JSON Schema, Cross-Platform Clipboard APIs\par Impact: Accepted into MuseScore's plugin ecosystem on first submission. Identified a product gap — MuseScore had no way to manage large voicing libraries — and filled it with a complete solution in days.\par \par }