{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\par \b Dheeraj Chand\b0\par \par 202.550.7110 | dheeraj.chand@gmail.com | https://www.dheerajchand.com | https://www.linkedin.com/in/dheerajchand/ | Austin, TX\par \par \b PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY\b0\par Data analyst with 20+ years and a focus on finding errors everyone else missed. I discovered systematic race coding errors in national voter databases — decades of miscoding that affected every Black and Asian-American voter in the system. Built geospatial ML algorithms that improved classification accuracy from 23% to 64%. I introduced choropleths and hexagonal grid maps to firms that had never seen spatial visualization. My analysis has been cited in Supreme Court proceedings. The job isn't just finding patterns — it's making sure the patterns are real.\par \par \b KEY ACHIEVEMENTS AND IMPACT\b0\par \b Impact\b0\par • Discovered systematic race coding errors in national voter databases affecting all Black and Asian-American voters — decades of miscoding nobody else had caught. Built geospatial ML algorithms improving classification accuracy from \b 23%\b0 to \b 64%\b0.\par • Redesigned sampling methodologies to achieve stronger sample-to-universe correspondence, producing more representative surveys and more reliable electoral predictions across presidential, gubernatorial, congressional, and senatorial campaigns.\par • Developed longitudinal geospatial analysis methods that improved segmentation accuracy by \b 34%\b0 and survey incidence rates by \b 28%\b0, reducing polling costs while increasing response quality.\par • Built a redistricting platform serving \b 12,847\b0 analysts across 89 organizations during the 2021 redistricting cycle, with real-time collaborative editing and Census integration.\par \par \par \b CORE COMPETENCIES\b0\par • Programming and Development\par • Machine Learning & AI\par • Geospatial Technologies\par \par \b TECHNICAL SKILLS\b0\par • Python\par • R\par • SQL/PostGIS\par • JavaScript\par • Java\par • Other Technologies\par • ML Frameworks\par • Geospatial ML\par • Techniques\par • Validation\par • Databases\par • Analysis Tools\par • Web Mapping\par • Processing\par • Library\par \par \b PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE\b0\par \b Partner - Siege Analytics (Austin, TX) | 2005 - Present\b0\par Data Science & Political Analytics\par • Discovered systematic race coding errors in national voter databases affecting \b 50M\b0+ voters. Built geospatial ML algorithms improving demographic classification accuracy from \b 23%\b0 to \b 64%\b0\par • Built a redistricting platform used by \b 12,847\b0 analysts across 89 organizations during the 2021 cycle, with real-time collaborative editing and Census integration\par • Redesigned sampling methodologies to improve sample-to-universe correspondence, producing more representative surveys across electoral campaigns at every level\par • Invented trigonometric boundary estimation algorithm that cut mapping costs \b 73.5%\b0, saving organizations \b $4.7M\b0\par • Built real-time FEC fraud detection and analysis system (live at https://elect.info) using Python, Pandas, and PySpark — processing billions of records\par • Briefed senior government officials on election integrity and voter sentiment. Data analysis cited in Supreme Court case proceedings\par \par \b Data Products Manager - Helm/Murmuration (Austin, TX) | 2021 - 2023\b0\par Democratic Electoral Technology\par • Led design and implementation of an enterprise-scale multi-tenant data warehouse for geo-referenced demographic, econometric, and electoral data\par • Managed an engineering team of 11 while setting technical direction for data architecture and pipeline modernization\par • Modernized legacy ETL processes with dbt, PySpark, Snowflake, and Databricks workflows — cut processing time by \b 57%\b0\par \par \b Analytics Supervisor - GSD&M (Austin, TX) | 2018 - 2019\b0\par Advertising Analytics\par • Rebuilt the Decision Sciences Department from scratch — introduced version control, Agile, and spatial analysis to a team that had been doing everything in Excel\par • Implemented spatial analysis and consumer segmentation that revealed patterns in existing customer data nobody had seen before\par • Built ML-based segmentation and behavioral clustering models for multi-million dollar advertising campaigns\par \par \b Senior Analyst - Myers Research (Austin, TX) | 2012 - 2014\b0\par Political Research & Analysis\par • Designed survey instruments for specialized voting segments and niche markets\par • Co-developed a web application managing all aspects of survey operations — instrument design through data collection and analysis\par • Introduced geospatial techniques to enhance market segmentation, providing location-based consumer insights the firm had never offered\par \par \b Research Director - PCCC (Washington, DC) | August 2011 - August 2012\b0\par Political Research & Data Analysis\par • Conceived and built FLEEM — a Twilio-based web application emulating a predictive dialer for regulated political surveys, handling \b 10,000\b0+ simultaneous calls\par • Built IVR polling system supporting early quantitative research for Senators Martin Heinrich and Elizabeth Warren\par • Developed reporting system with Python, GeoDjango, PostGIS, and Apache — tabular and graphical outputs for campaign decision-making\par \par \b KEY PROJECTS\b0\par \b Geospatial Demographic Classification System (2014 - Present)\b0\par Machine learning system that discovered systematic race coding errors in national voter databases and improved demographic classification accuracy from 23% to 64%. The finding affected all Black and Asian-American voters in the system.\par Technologies: Python, Scikit-learn, PostGIS, GeoPandas, TensorFlow, PySpark, AWS\par Impact: Corrected demographic data affecting 50M+ voters nationwide. Improved electoral prediction accuracy by 22%. Analysis cited in Supreme Court proceedings.\par \par \b siege_utilities — Geospatial Data Sciences Library (2019 - Present)\b0\par Open-source Python library powering all Siege Analytics workflows. 37 GeoDjango models for Census TIGER, NCES, NLRB, and Federal Judicial Districts. 9 population services for demographic analysis. PySpark/Apache Sedona distributed computing utilities. Census API integration for ACS, Decennial, and PL 94-171 redistricting data. Hydra + Pydantic configuration system. 1,884+ tests. Dual-licensed AGPLv3/Commercial.\par Technologies: Python, GeoDjango, PostGIS, PySpark, Apache Sedona, Hydra, Pydantic, Snowflake, Census API\par Impact: Foundation infrastructure for all Siege Analytics projects — every analysis pipeline and data product depends on it. Demonstrates commitment to open-source and rigorous engineering practices.\par \par \b National Redistricting Platform (2020 - 2022)\b0\par Cloud-based GeoDjango platform for redistricting analysis with real-time collaborative editing and Census integration, used by 12,847 analysts across 89 organizations during the 2021 redistricting cycle.\par Technologies: GeoDjango, PostGIS, AWS, Docker, React, Python, Redis, WebSockets\par Impact: Reduced mapping costs by 73.5%, saving organizations $4.7M. Made redistricting analysis accessible to organizations that previously couldn't afford it.\par \par \b High-Performance Geospatial Tile Server (2010 - 2011)\b0\par Custom tile server for WMS integration enabling interactive visualization of CRM and Census data for political campaigns.\par Technologies: GeoTools, OpenLayers, Java, MySQL, TileMill, JavaScript\par Impact: Improved contact rates by 53% and segmentation accuracy by 88% through spatial visualization of campaign data.\par \par }