{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\par \b Dheeraj Chand\b0\par \par 202.550.7110 | dheeraj.chand@gmail.com | https://www.dheerajchand.com | https://www.linkedin.com/in/dheerajchand/ | Austin, TX\par \par \b PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY\b0\par Software engineer with 20+ years building full-stack systems for data-intensive applications. I architected FLEEM — a Twilio-based polling system handling 10,000+ simultaneous calls — and a redistricting platform with real-time collaborative editing serving 13,000 analysts. I built econometric simulation software for UNICEF and IFRC.\par \par \b KEY ACHIEVEMENTS AND IMPACT\b0\par \b Impact\b0\par • Built a redistricting platform serving \b 12,847\b0 analysts across 89 organizations during the 2021 redistricting cycle, with real-time collaborative editing and Census integration.\par • Designed ETL pipelines using PySpark, dbt, Databricks, and PostgreSQL/PostGIS — processing large-scale geospatial datasets with automated quality monitoring.\par • Invented a trigonometric boundary estimation algorithm that reduced mapping costs by \b 73.5%\b0, saving campaigns and nonprofits \b $4.7M\b0 and making redistricting analysis accessible to organizations that couldn't previously afford it.\par \par \par For a more detailed description of my experience, please visit https://www.dheerajchand.com\par \par \b CORE COMPETENCIES\b0\par • Programming and Development\par • Cloud & DevOps\par • Data Infrastructure\par \par \b TECHNICAL SKILLS\b0\par • Python\par • R\par • SQL/PostGIS\par • JavaScript\par • Java\par • Other Technologies\par • AWS\par • Containerization\par • Monitoring\par • CI/CD\par • Processing\par • Pipelines\par • Storage\par • Streaming\par \par \b PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE\b0\par \b Partner - Siege Analytics (Austin, TX) | 2005 - Present\b0\par Data Science & Political Analytics\par • Discovered systematic race coding errors in national voter databases affecting \b 50M\b0+ voters. Built geospatial ML algorithms improving demographic classification accuracy from \b 23%\b0 to \b 64%\b0\par • Built a redistricting platform used by \b 12,847\b0 analysts across 89 organizations during the 2021 cycle, with real-time collaborative editing and Census integration\par • Redesigned sampling methodologies to improve sample-to-universe correspondence, producing more representative surveys across electoral campaigns at every level\par \par \b Data Products Manager - Helm/Murmuration (Austin, TX) | 2021 - 2023\b0\par Democratic Electoral Technology\par • Designed and built Civic Graph — a federated medallion architecture data warehouse harmonizing behavioral, attitudinal, demographic, econometric, and geographical data from state, federal, and international agencies into a unified analytical layer\par • Managed an engineering team of 11 while setting technical direction for data architecture and pipeline modernization\par \par \b Software Engineer - Mautinoa Technologies (Austin, TX) | 2016 - 2018\b0\par Humanitarian Technology\par • Conceived, architected, and built econometric simulation software for measuring humanitarian crisis interventions\par • Liaised with senior analysts and executives at the International Federation of Red Cross and UNICEF on impact assessment methodology and tooling\par \par \b Research Director - PCCC (Washington, DC) | August 2011 - August 2012\b0\par Political Research & Data Analysis\par • Conceived and built FLEEM — a Twilio-based web application emulating a predictive dialer for regulated political surveys, handling \b 10,000\b0+ simultaneous calls\par • Built IVR polling system supporting early quantitative research for Senators Martin Heinrich and Elizabeth Warren\par \par \b Software Engineer - Salsa Labs (Washington, DC) | January 2011 - August 2011\b0\par Political Technology & CRM Systems\par • Built geospatial analysis and mapping tools for a political CRM platform serving progressive campaigns\par • Developed database integration connecting voter files with campaign management tools\par \par \b Interim Technology Manager - The Praxis Project (Washington, DC) | April 2009 - October 2009\b0\par Public Health Technology\par • Managed technology infrastructure for a public health advocacy organization\par • Built database systems for tracking policy initiatives and outcomes\par \par \b KEY PROJECTS\b0\par \b [Siege Utilities](https://github.com/siege-analytics/siege_utilities) — Geospatial Data Sciences Library (2019 - Present)\b0\par Open-source Python library powering all Siege Analytics workflows. 37 GeoDjango models for Census TIGER, NCES, NLRB, and Federal Judicial Districts. 9 population services for demographic analysis. PySpark/Apache Sedona distributed computing utilities. Includes geospatial computation functions that run inside Databricks without Apache Sedona or C library dependencies. Census API integration for ACS, Decennial, and PL 94-171 redistricting data. Hydra + Pydantic configuration system. 1,884+ tests. Dual-licensed AGPLv3/Commercial.\par Technologies: Python, GeoDjango, PostGIS, PySpark, Apache Sedona, Databricks, Hydra, Pydantic, Snowflake, Census API\par Impact: Foundation infrastructure for all Siege Analytics projects — every analysis pipeline and data product depends on it. Demonstrates commitment to open-source and rigorous engineering practices.\par \par \b National Redistricting Platform (2020 - 2022)\b0\par Cloud-based GeoDjango platform for redistricting analysis with real-time collaborative editing and Census integration, used by 12,847 analysts across 89 organizations during the 2021 redistricting cycle.\par Technologies: GeoDjango, PostGIS, AWS, Docker, React, Python, Redis, WebSockets\par Impact: Reduced mapping costs by 73.5%, saving organizations $4.7M. Made redistricting analysis accessible to organizations that previously couldn't afford it.\par \par \b FLEEM Political Polling System (2011 - 2012)\b0\par Web application using Twilio API for regulated political surveys, emulating a predictive dialer to handle 10,000+ simultaneous calls. Built for PCCC, used in campaigns for Senators Heinrich and Warren.\par Technologies: Twilio API, Python, Django, PostgreSQL, GeoDjango, PostGIS, JavaScript, Apache\par Impact: Saved PAC $500K+ annually by doing IVR polling in-house instead of contracting with Public Policy Polling. Supported campaigns for Senators Heinrich and Warren.\par \par }